22.0.0.13 staging (#2817)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2022-12-20-22.0.0.13.adoc

seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.13 provides the ability to automatically purge FFDC log files after they reach a configured age. This release also provides many significant bug fixes, including two that address CVEs in gRPC and gRPC Client.
blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.13 provides the ability to automatically purge FFDC log files after they reach a configured age. This release also provides many significant bug fixes, including two that address CVEs in gRPC and gRPC Client.
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
open-graph-image-alt: Open Liberty Logo
---
= Configurable maximum FFDC age along with CVE and other notable bug fixes in Open Liberty 22.0.0.13
Michal Broz <https://github.com/mbroz2>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

Open Liberty 22.0.0.13 provides the ability to automatically purge FFDC log files after they reach a configured age. This release also provides many significant bug fixes, including two that address CVEs in gRPC and gRPC Client.  Two new guides, covering the topics of gRPC and WebSocket, also join our extensive list of guides.

> If you're interested in features and functionality which we have in progress, like Jakarta EE 10, MicroProfile 6, and InstantOn, take a look at the recent link:https://openliberty.io/blog/?search=beta&key=tag[beta blog posts].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're interested in features and functionality that we have in progress, like Jakarta EE 10, MicroProfile 6, and InstantOn, take a look at the recent link:https://openliberty.io/blog/?search=beta&key=tag[beta blog posts].
```

Check out link:{url-prefix}/blog/?search=release&search!=beta[previous Open Liberty GA release blog posts].

[#run]

== Run your apps using 22.0.0.13

If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.openliberty</groupId>
    <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
    <version>22.0.0.13</version>
    <type>zip</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[22.0.0.13,)'
}
----

Or if you're using Docker:

[source]
----
FROM open-liberty
----

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/downloads/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

// // // // DO NOT MODIFY THIS COMMENT BLOCK <GHA-BLOG-TOPIC> // // // // 
// Blog issue: https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/23614
// Contact/Reviewer: ReeceNana,tonyreigns
// // // // // // // // 
[#maxFfdcAge]
== Configurable maximum FFDC age
   

> Open Liberty provides First Failure Data Capture(FFDC) capability which instantly collects information about events and conditions that might lead up to a failure.  In certain scenarios, the number of files in the FFDC directory can grow to a very large amount. Currently, Open Liberty automatically purges FFDC files in excess of 500 and this value is not configurable. This beta release introduces new functionality which automatically purges FFDC log files after they reach a configured age. This is done through a new configuration attribute, `maxFfdcAge`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open Liberty provides First Failure Data Capture(FFDC) capability, which instantly collects information about events and conditions that might lead up to a failure.  In certain scenarios, the number of files in the FFDC directory can grow to a very large amount. Previously, Open Liberty automatically purged FFDC files in excess of 500 and this value was not configurable. This release introduces new functionality that automatically purges FFDC log files after they reach a configured age. You can specify this age with a new configuration attribute, `maxFfdcAge`.
```

|===

For a list of past security vulnerability fixes, reference the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/security-vulnerabilities.html[Security vulnerability (CVE) list].

[#bugs]
== Notable bugs fixed in this release

We’ve spent some time fixing bugs. The following sections describe just some of the issues resolved in this release. If you’re interested, here’s the  link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A220013+label%3A%22release+bug%22[full list of bugs fixed in 22.0.0.13].

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/23478[NullPointerException in InstallFeatureAction for .esa files]
+
A bug introduced in the featureUtility command caused a `NullPointerException` to occur when trying to install a feature with using the Enterprise Subsystem Archive (ESA) packaging denoted by an `.esa` extension.
+
[source]
----
java.lang.NullPointerException
        at com.ibm.ws.install.internal.InstallUtils.getFeatureName(InstallUtils.java:794)
        at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.cli.InstallFeatureAction.esaInstallInit(InstallFeatureAction.java:188)
        ....
----
+

> This is has been resolved, and invoking `./featureUtility installFeature x.esa` to install ESA features no longer throw an NPE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is has been resolved, and invoking `./featureUtility installFeature x.esa` to install ESA features no longer throws an NPE.
```

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/23403[HTTP/2 Intermittent server quiesce failure when stream is closed with an exception]
+
An intermittent issue can occur causing threads to hang when an exception occurs on an HTTP/2 connection. This results in a quiesce warning being issued during a server stop.
+
The issue has been resolved and the HTTP/2 streams and connections and the threads managing now stop without error, even in exception conditions.

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/23326[Liberty default HttpAuthenticationMechanisms do not call HttpMessageContext.responseUnauthorized]
+

> `HttpMessageContextWrapper` should be able to override the `responseUnauthorized` method. Due to a bug, Liberty's `HttpAuthenticationMechanisms` did not call `HttpMessageContext.responseUnauthorized` preventing users from to enriching the response, like adding headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HttpMessageContextWrapper` must override the `responseUnauthorized` method. Due to a bug, Liberty's `HttpAuthenticationMechanisms` did not call `HttpMessageContext.responseUnauthorized`, which prevented users from enriching the response, for example, by adding headers.
```

+
This issue has been resolved and the default `HttpAuthenticationMechanisms` now properly calls `HttpMessageContext.responseUnauthorized` for unauthorized requests.

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/23146[JspFactory.getDefaultFactory().getEngineInfo().getSpecificationVersion() return incorrect version]
+

> If a Pages, formerly known as JSP,  application calls `JspFactory.getDefaultFactory().getEngineInfo().getSpecificationVersion()` then a wrong version is returned. The value is coded to return `2.1` rather than the correct specification version.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a Pages, formerly known as JSP,  application calls `JspFactory.getDefaultFactory().getEngineInfo().getSpecificationVersion()`, the wrong version is returned. The value is coded to return `2.1` rather than the correct specification version.  
```

+
The issue has been resolved, and the correct version is now returned.  For example, `jsp-2.2` returns `2.2` and `pages-3.0` returns `3.0`.

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/22405[OidcClientImpl does not properly declare a dependency on SecurityService]
+

> When invoking `request.logout()` from a `ServletFilter` intercepting traffic to form-based logout URL `ibm_security_logout`, the following NPE can occur:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When invoking `request.logout()` from a `ServletFilter` that intercepts traffic to the `ibm_security_logout` form-based logout URL , the following NPE might occur:
```

        at com.ibm.ws.security.openidconnect.client.internal.OidcClientImpl.logout(OidcClientImpl.java:663)
        at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer.security.AuthenticateApi.logoutUnprotectedResourceServiceRef(AuthenticateApi.java:244)
        at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer.security.AuthenticateApi.logout(AuthenticateApi.java:189)
        at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer.security.AuthenticateApi.logoutServlet30(AuthenticateApi.java:627)
        at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer.security.WebAppSecurityCollaboratorImpl.logout(WebAppSecurityCollaboratorImpl.java:1212)
        at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer.srt.SRTServletRequest.logout(SRTServletRequest.java:3956)
        at javax.servlet.http.HttpServletRequestWrapper.logout(HttpServletRequestWrapper.java:376)
        at com.ibm.bpm.servlet.filters.GenericSecurityServletFilter.doFilter(GenericSecurityServletFilter.java:327)
        at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer.filter.FilterInstanceWrapper.doFilter(FilterInstanceWrapper.java:201)
----
+
The issue has been resolved by declaring `OidcClientImpl` dependent on `SecurityService` and the NPE no longer occurs.

[#guides]
== New and updated guides since the previous release

> As Open Liberty features and functionality continue to grow, we continue to add link:https://openliberty.io/guides/?search=new&key=tag[new guides to openliberty.io] on those topics to make their adoption as easy as possible.  Existing guides also receive updates in order to address any reported bugs/issues, keep their content current, and expand what their topic covers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As Open Liberty features and functionality continue to grow, we continue to add link:https://openliberty.io/guides/?search=new&key=tag[new guides to openliberty.io] on those topics to make their adoption as easy as possible. Existing guides also receive updates to address any reported bugs/issues, keep their content current, and expand what their topic covers.
```
